GRUB HowTo

Bootloaders are essencial for computers, bootstraping operational
systems wherever they are installed: hard disk, network, floppy,
cdrom. However, they are also a complex piece of software, in the
sense that almost nobody knows how to use them at their fully
capacity. A clear example of this is when the master boot record is
cleared and the adopted solution is the reinstallation of the
operational system.

GRUB is one of the commonest bootloaders in the Linux world. It stands
for GRand Unified Bootloader. Although it haven't got quite there, it
carries a bag of tricks kidda cool. With a floppy disk, you can
recover the boot record, resinstall grub, load the OS from the disk,
over the network, CD-ROM, even from the same device you used to load
GRUB.

Unfortunately, most of GRUB's tricks are unknown to most of the
people. To make life easier, and show off some of GRUB's capabilities,
I created a boot disk that can boot from many devices and reinstall
GRUB if needed. The purpose is not only demonstrate GRUB, but work as
a recover disk.

Actually, the real goal for this boot disk was to load the CD-ROM
device (one connected to a IDE interface built in Sound Blaster 16)
from my 486 computer: it's BIOS doesn't support CD-ROM devices, so I
was using GRUB to try to recognize things. Well, I haven't gone so far
and, actually, as GRUB relies on BIOS to detect the hardware, it will
probably not work (may I can port some detection code from Linux, just
enough to detect the cd-rom)

The floppy disk image is available to download at the page's bottom.
You can create it by yourself, it's quite easy:

 1. Take a floppy disk with no bad sectors.
 2. Run "grub-install /dev/fd0 --root-directory=boot/"
 3. Edit the file "boot/grub/menu.lst" as you wish.

Now, the floppy image and the files available in it:
  * Floppy disk image: grub_boot_disk.img
  * Files within the disk image: grub, menu.lst, memtest86,
 memtest86+, invaders
